Our very first Jenkins file demo.
Let's go.
I'm simply going to copy this pipeline script and then jump into Jenkins console.
Click New Item.
We have to select a pipeline job because it is a pipeline script.
Freestyle project cannot have a pipeline script.
I'm going to give this job the name test Jenkins file zero one click.
Okay.
Scroll down.
Here is the pipeline script.
So you have two options.
You can paste the Jenkins file here or you can point to a GitHub.
So for simplicity, I'm just going to put everything in the Jenkins job so that we can change it and
test it easily.
So let's test this and we are going to test it out.
Click Save, Click Build.
Now, pretty straightforward.
If we go back to the Jenkins file, it has three stages build, test and deploy.
And within each stage we're just echoing, building, testing and deploying.
So the Jenkins job view shows each stage separately, and then you can individually go check out the
logs.
If you click logs, it is going to say building.
So going back to configure, if you scroll down to the Jenkins file.
So the thing to remember is within these steps it can execute any command.
So even though for this one, I'm just saying Echo, if you want to build a Java project, you can run
a mac command if you want to install some libraries and then zip everything up for a lambda package,
you can run those commands like pip install and zip all that stuff and you can add additional stages
quite easily.
For example, let's say you want to add another test.
Let's say you want to change this to unit test and you want to create another stage called integration
test.
And you can change this and you can add as many commands as you want within each stage.
So you simply copy and paste.
Testing Part two.
Let's click this save and build now.
All right.
So pretty straightforward.
Another new stage cam integration test.
And you can see the full output by going to console output and you could see each stage just shows what
it does.
So going back to the Jenkins file, this is a pretty straightforward Jenkins file.
One challenge you will face is how are you going to remember all the commands?
Let's say you want to grab a GitHub repository to this Jenkins job and then maybe you want to run a
Ansible playbook and maybe you want to install something something into Kubernetes cluster.
The good news is you don't need to remember all of that.
So I'm going to show you easy way to write Jenkins file in the next lecture.